### <a name="section_20"></a><p align="center">Section 20<br /> Health Capability to be Issued a Firearm Permit</p>

(1) An assessing physician shall issue a certificate regarding the health capability of an applicant for a firearm permit on the basis of a medical examination or, as the case may be, on the basis of a psychological examination and other necessary tests. For the purposes of this Act the assessing physician shall be a family doctor with whom the applicant for a firearm permit or the firearm permit holder is registered for medical care; in the case of an applicant for a firearm permit for group D, the assessing physician shall be a doctor at a medical facility providing preventive medical care to the relevant employer.

(2) A firearm permit holder for groups D and F shall be obliged to submit him/herself to a medical examination by an assessing physician within one month after 30 months have elapsed since the date on which the relevant firearm permit was issued.

(3) Should an assessing physician find any change to the health condition of a firearm permit holder the consequence of which is the loss of health capability, the physician shall be obliged to issue a new certificate regarding health capability and send it, without undue delay, to the relevant police unit. As regards the holder of a firearm permit for group D, the physician shall be also obliged to inform, without undue delay, the employer of the permit holder.

(4) Any doctor who finds evidence or who has reasonable suspicion that a firearm permit holder suffers from a disease or impairment or is in a condition excluding or limiting the option to possess or carry a firearm, must instruct such holder of such facts and must inform, without undue delay, an assessing physician of the facts. The assessing physician concerned shall proceed in compliance with paragraph 3.

(5) In those cases referred to in paragraph 3 the firearm permit holder shall be obliged to appear in person, upon the invitation of the assessing physician, on the specified date, before the physician concerned and submit to a medical examination of health capability prior to being issued a new firearm permit. If the firearm permit holder cannot submit to a medical examination due to serious reasons he/she shall be obliged to do so not later than within one month from the date specified by the assessing physician. If a firearm permit holder does not submit to a medical examination the assessing physician shall inform, without undue delay, the relevant police unit thereof.

(6) Requirements for health capability pursuant to paragraph 1, types of medical examinations, their content, the content of a medical certification and the period of validity, description of diseases, impairments and health conditions for which it is impossible to issue a positive opinion and or where such opinion may be issued only if the holder is examined by a medical specialist, shall be stipulated in an implementing legal regulation.

